#LyX 1.4.4 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 245
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass IEEEtran
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Spotlight: Evaluating power consumption at an individual basis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Abstract
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:Abstract}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We present an application that can monitor the electrical energy consumption
 of an individual in an office setting with sharable and non-sharable appliances.
 A sharable appliance is one that multiple personnel can use at the same
 time like lights in a lab, television, etc.
 A non-sharable appliance is one that only one person uses at a time like
 microwave, coffee-maker, etc.
 All non-sharable appliances are instrumented to consist of a power-meter
 and a RFID reader.
 The user carries a RFID tag which is read by the instrument when it is
 in use by the user.
 Each non-sharable appliance has a power meter and a defining border with
 controlled entry and exit points.
 Personnel entring and exiting the range are detected.
 The power consumption is equally divided between the people sharing the
 appliance.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:Introduction}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Presently all consumption monitoring is at the granularity of when the energy
 was used and where it was used.
 This measurement profile is very coarse and there is no notion of who used
 this energy.
 As the energy cost increase, it is becoming important to monitor the consumptio
n at a finer granularity like at the level of individuals.
 This will allow organizations to optimize energy consumption in various
 ways.
 Employees can be assigned 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

green
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 points based on the amount of energy they consumption and can offer incentives
 to decrease their consumption.
 When this information is combined with the information of where and when,
 organizations can better pinpoint areas of energy wastage and can optimize
 the consumption in certain places.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We will attempt a basic attempt at monitoring individual consumption profile
 and try to offer some analysis at some of issues in solving this problem.
 Our results show that it is possible to carry out such profiling at an
 individual level with reasonable assumptions.
 Using our results a more sophisticated and detailed application can be
 constructed which would carry out such profiling for more appliances and
 collected more data.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This document is structured as follows.
 Section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:App}

\end_inset

 describes our introductory application and some of its limitations.
 ....
 Section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:R-Algoriths}

\end_inset

 describes the R algorithms used to analyze the data to construct a consumption
 profile of a user.
 We offer some results in section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:Results}

\end_inset

.
 Finally we detail some related work in section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:Related-Work}

\end_inset

 and conclude in section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:Conclusion}

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Application
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:App}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We discuss our introductory application and some of the limitations of the
 application.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Application Details
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sub:Application-Details}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We had a number of constraints in developing our application.
 We had only two power-meters are our disposal and we were short of the
 number of appliances that we can use.
 Therefore, we instrumented the coffee-maker and the soldering station in
 our lab.
 These two will serve as the non-sharable appliances as only one person
 can use it at any time.
 Both consist of a RFID reader and a power-meter.
 The reader sits on top of the appliance and is connected to a mote.
 The power-meter monitors the energy flowing into the appliance and is also
 connected to another mote.
 Both appliances have two motes each.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We monitor the lights in our lab as the sharable appliance.
 We are unable to hook a power-meter to the lights fixture so we will estimate
 the energy consumption of them.
 The range of the lights appliance is defined to be the entire lab.
 So anyone present in the lab is sharing its consumption.
 The entry and exit points of the lab are the doors.
 We established one RFID reader at each door.
 This collects the RFID reading on people whenever they enter or exit the
 lab.
 Then using a algorithm on the backend, we will determine when a person
 is entering or leaving the lab.
 Our lab has two doors so two RFID readers were required to instrument the
 doors.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The motes on the appliances collect the RFID or power-meter data and transmit
 to the basestation.
 Since the deployment for this lab spanned a vast area, we had to use an
 additional mote to serve as a hop for all the motes to be able to send
 data to the basestation.
 We used an additional mote to serve as a basestation.
 The basestation is connected to a gumstix which sends all the collected
 data to sensorbase using an ethernet internet connection.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We use sensorbase to aggregate all our data.
 The data is sent to it through the basestation.
 Then we can probe sensorbase for the collected data on the backend where
 we run different algorithms written in R to compute the individual power
 consumption.
 The total amount of hardware used in the application is eight motes, two
 power-meters, four RFID readers, one gumstix and numerous RFID tags.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Limitations
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sub:Limitations}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are certain limitations with our application which will have to be
 addressed for it to be used successfully in a real world deployment.
 One fundamental limitation steams from our divisioin of appliances into
 sharable and non-sharable.
 There are certain appliances that do not necessarily fall in either category.
 A good example of this is servers and computers.
 Servers have a complicated consumption profile which to a certain extend
 tends to be independent of the usage profile of it.
 In order to properly evaluate the individual profile for a server, we need
 to monitor a log of which user is actively running tasks on the system.
 Presently, we are monitoring the printer by assuming that the user performing
 the print job will pick up the work shortly afterwards.
 If another person initiates another print job before the previous one is
 picked up, the profile will be incorrect.
 One way of improving this is to use print logs to determine the profile
 instead of using RFID tags.
 The printer in our lab does not maintain any such information but in a
 general setting, it will be possible to maintain such profiling.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Presently, there is no policing in the usage profiling.
 Anyone can use the appliance and as long as they do not register their
 RFID tags, it will not be counted against them.
 Some ways of improving this is to instrument the appliances such that a
 RFID registery is required in order to activate them.
 This would require significant effort and is beyond the scope of this document
 but easily implemented in a general setting.
 Finally, we did not instrument the light fixtures in out lab to retrive
 consumption data.
 We simply profile the the details of the lab occupancy to model our sharable
 appliances.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
R Algoriths 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:R-Algoriths}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We constructed two usage profile in our application: one for the sharable
 appliances and one for the non-sharable.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Sharable Appliances
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For the sharable appliances, we need to construct an occupancy profile of
 the users.
 We do this by collecting RFID tag information on when the users enter and
 leave the lab.
 We assume that the user deligently tag him/herself when entering and leaving
 the lab.
 Our data collection profile is robust enough to ensure no lost information.
 We start by assuming that no user is present in the lab.
 Then whenever a RFID tag is received, it is believed that the user has
 entered the lab and on the next occurance of the tag, it is believed that
 the user has left the lab.
 Whenever anyone enters or leaves the lab, we calculate the additional power
 consumed by each user present in the lab during that duration and add it
 to his/her total power consumption.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Non-sharable Appliances
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For non-sharable appliances, we simply detect usage by RFID readings.
 Whenever we get a RFID reading on a particular appliance, we determine
 that the appliance is used between a given interval before and after the
 reading.
 We will detect any appliance usage in this interval and allocate that consumpti
on to the particular RFID reading.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Before we can determine an appliance use, we need to filter out the transients
 in the usage profile.
 From the data collected from the power-meter, we have power readings of
 the appliance at regular intervals.
 We smooth out these readings by applying a exponentially weighted moving
 average filter to the stream.
 The equation of the filter is the following:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\align center
\begin_inset Formula $y(n)=\alpha x(n)+(1-\alpha)y(n-1)$
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula $\alpha$
\end_inset

 has to be smaller than 1.
 Picking a big value for 
\begin_inset Formula $\alpha$
\end_inset

 emphasis the actual stream over the history and a smaller value emphasis
 the history over stream.
 Therefore, a small value will filter out more transients from the streams.
 We pick a modest value of 0.1 for removing the transients from our data
 stream.
 We will be using this filtered stream for all our data processing in this
 section.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We use a much smaller value of 0.001 for calculating the idle power of the
 device.
 This value will filter out most transients from the stream to the point
 that even when the device is in use, it will still have only a slight change
 in the filtered stream.
 Averaging the stream computes roughly the idle power of the device.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After we have computed the idle power and the filtered stream, we are ready
 to locate the usages of the devices based on the RFID readings.
 Whenever we detect a tag, we look for the usages on the filtered stream.
 We define the device to be in use whenever the filtered stream is outputing
 a value greater than some threshold determines from the idle power.
 We look for the closest such edge in our filtered stream to find the usage.
 We locate the low-to-high and the high-to-low edge of the usage, integrate
 it and add it to the user's consumption profile.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Results 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:Results}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Related Work 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:Related-Work}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Conclusion 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:Conclusion}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In conclusion, we have shown that energy consumption monitoring at a finer
 granularity of individuals is possible.
 We have carried out such profiling by dividing the commonly found appliances
 into two different classes and described our algorithms for profiling such
 devices.
 Most commonly found appliances fit in this classes of devices while some
 don't.
 An interesting area of future work will be identifying in further detail
 other appliances that do not fall in either category and developing profiling
 algorithms for them and also addressing some of the limitations of our
 application discussed in section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sub:Limitations}

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
