#LyX 1.5.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 276
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass extarticle
\options times, 10pt,twocolumn
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
SpotLight : Focusing on Energy Consumption of Individials
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Younghun Kim, Zainul Charbiwala, Akhilesh Singhania, Mani B.
 Srivastava
\newline
Networked and Embedded Systems Laboratory 
\newline
Department of Electrical
 Engineering
\newline
University of California, Los Angeles
\newline
{kimyh, zainul, akhi, mbs}@ucla.
edu
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
The impending energy crisis forces us to research innovative ways of optimizing
 energy consumption.
 We believe that a better understanding of energy consumption can help improve
 energy efficiency.
 We present SpotLight, a system that profiles individual's energy consumption
 pattern in real time using wireless sensor network technology.
 Our prototype implementation views appliances as rendering a service to
 a user and the energy consumption associated with the appliance as a cost
 for the service.
 Each participating appliance is specified a service range, a physical vicinity
 from the appliance within which the user benefits from the service.
 Using radio receive strength from user-wearable mote tags, an appliance
 is able to determine the users in its service range.
 In order to make these measurements, each appliance is instrumented with
 a power meter and a mote tag reader.
 The current implementation of Spotlight uses a COTS power meter and MicaZ
 motes.
 The Spotlight system is deployed and tested in an experimental setup with
 various appliances and users.
 We evaluate multiple schemes of accounting energy consumption based on
 an individual's movement profile and the appliances' power profile.
 Our preliminary results show how the system could detect wasted energy
 and we discuss interesting individual behavior that could be interpreted
 for various energy optimizations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
NYMEX CRUDE FUTURE PETROLEUM price is $95.50/barrel [Bloomberg] Feb 15 2008,
 and Eighty-five percent of this energy was generated from non-renewable
 fossil fuels such as coal, natural gas, and petroleum (U.S.
 Department of Energy, 2006).
 Thus energy production and consumption comes not only with a significant
 cost but also with environmental concern.
 Recently, more government agencies and companies are becoming concerned
 with the cost of energy consumption.
 The cost is also affecting many households with significant consumption.
 The UN Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific is concerned
 with sustainable energy consumption.
 Dr.
 Song et.
 al.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand cite
key "UNESCAP"

\end_inset

claim that energy consumption pattern per household can provide a good way
 to determine socio-economic level of society as well as a solution for
 saving energy.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The traditional dimensions measure the consumption at a very coarse-grained
 granularity.
 The consumption is given in terms of household and over a period of many
 days.
 This allows for only a partial awareness on the part of the users about
 their energy consumption.
 In such settings, if measurement of energy consumption was made available
 at a finer granularity, it would help users in pinpointing specific habits
 or trends, modifying which would aid in significant improvements in energy
 consumption.
 For example, ??? et.
 al.
 showed people are willing to do the right thing as well as want to save
 their energy cost, and people want to know such feedback information.
 Personal experience in regards to socio-environmental concern also motivates
 individual to want to have information sources to be more aware of that.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
All these programs are still aimed profiling the consumption at the granularity
 of a household.
 To the best of our knowledge, there have been no attempts at profiling
 an individual's energy consumption pattern.
 We believe that profiling at this granularity would further aid in pinpointing
 consumption patterns to further improve energy efficiency.
 We introduce a system called Spotlight that is capable of estimating an
 individual's personal energy consumption profile.
 The system can be operated at a household level or on a larger scale allowing
 users to set their own privacy settings.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After an initial calibration procedure, it operates with little or no interventi
on from the user.
 Users are able to monitor their consumption pattern in real time or observe
 long term trend reports.
 The application can detect instances of energy wastage where an appliance
 could be operating unnecessarily and could also identify the person responsible
 for the wasted energy.
 The application also details how much of a user's energy consumption came
 from specific appliances and how much energy was consumed by different
 appliances.
 This information can be used by the users to make decisions on the efficiency
 of different appliances and about their personal habits.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We developed and deployed an application to estimate the consumption under
 the first classification of appliances.
 The third class of appliances and if the latter consumption policy for
 the second class of appliances is followed, they too can be monitored under
 this application with minor modifications.
 In the application, each user carries a RFID tag and each appliance is
 instrumented with a RFID reader and a power meter.
 The power meter records the energy consumption of the appliance and the
 RFID reader detects when a user enters the service range of the appliance.
 When a user is present in the service range of an appliance, the user is
 charged for the energy consumption of the appliance.
 If multiple users are present in the range, the charge is divided equally.
 The last person to leave the range will continue to be charged for the
 consumption of that appliance until another person enters the service range.
 We provide the ability for the users to observe their consumption in real-time
 through our Spotlight server.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The rest of the paper is structured as following.
 Section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand ref
reference "sec:System-Design"

\end_inset

 details the design and prototype implementation of our system.
 In section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand ref
reference "sec:Evaluation"

\end_inset

 we evaluate our system against the ground truth and for performance.
 We discuss some limitations of our approach and some observations in Section
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand ref
reference "sec:Discussion"

\end_inset

.
 Though no prior work targets energy profiling at an individual level, we
 note some projects of similar nature in Section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand ref
reference "sec:Related-works"

\end_inset

 and finally conclude in section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand ref
reference "sec:Conclusion"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this paper, we explore challenges in regards to our specific application,
 but our vision is not restricted to one specific application but to broader
 view of information reuse and innovative applications.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
System Architecture
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We envision 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Activity Recognition
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Infrastructure Monitoring and Indistrial Resource Monitoring Technology
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Resource monitoring
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Challenges
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Heterogenous Network
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Highly ad-hoc nature
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
MIMO nature
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Fuzzy nature of decision
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Redundant Information Sources
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Lack of network capability and participants
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Research plan
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Concluding Remarks
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Acknowledgement
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
