#LyX 1.5.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 276
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
SpotLight
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is more than a cliche to say something about energy conservation.
 A lot of countries established a regulation that encourage companies to
 put Energy Star Level or a similar metric on each appliance that they made.
 Consumers carefully consider this metric when they want to buy a new appliance.
 Beside of the regulation, in addition, consumers' preference to energy
 efficient appliances is a driving force for companies to develop more energy
 efficient appliances than before.
 People's awareness of energy conservation grows rapidly as developing countries
 keep consuming tremendous amount of fossil fuel as they are developing
 rapidly.
 Public policy strongly encourage people to be aware of lack of fossil fuel
 and improve their energy efficiency for the world to be sustainable.
 NGOs also keep eyes on companies to determine their sustainability.
 A good and compelling example is the great success of Toyota's Prius hybrid
 automobile.
 Due to its high price, it may not be cost effective for a short period
 of time.
 But a lot of people are willing to buy one if they are capable.
 That means as long as cost doesn't exceed a lot more than a traditional
 solution, some of them may still buy those products based upon their altruism.
 All those could be strong motivations for us to develeop our system.
 Meaning we have certain places where we sell our ideas.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Meanwhile, traditional sensing and monitoring systems often focused on reliabili
ty, accuracy, and precision in terms of sensing modalities.
 Therefore, they usually lack providing individual level of granularity
 but rather provide accurate and reliable sensory information of direct
 observations such as image, temperature, humidity, and etc.
 As emerging technology so called 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Human Intertwined Loop
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 applications reveals, individual's behavior is one of the most important
 factors that affect overall performance of the systems.
 In regard to the energy saving concern, for example, on a freeway typical
 energy efficient speed limit is 60MPH, however fuel-efficiency of a car
 highly depends on users' decision whether a driver follows the limit or
 not.
 It is also obvisous that even if a householder bought an energy efficient
 television, if he is very forgetful and therefore often forgets to turn
 the television off, it results in that a huge amount of energy will be
 wasted.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Demands for individual level of granularity of information is also strong
 motivation for us.
 As natural, people want to listen to their own stories and there are many
 examples.
 1) many of young people have their personal facebook, blog or webpage where
 they put their personal stories.
 One sometimes writes her diary and shopping list, puts her photos, and
 share those stories with friends and family.
 2) personal health monitoring application is also a good example of such
 demands.
 Recently, Nike+iPod package provides individual with their traning/running
 story on a daily basis which is of great success.
 Some elderly people, who have potential heal problems, are willing to buy
 personal blood pressure monitor/blood sugar level monitor.
 3) Curiousity often makes us want to know how well we are doing.
 Typical video game gives us some numbers that indicate how good a player
 is.
 Grade and competition often motivate students to study harder.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Technically speaking, sensing of people and sensing of phenomena are nothing
 new.
 However, sensing of how well and how are people doing with the world in
 individual level is a new question that is very interesting to answer.
 This is unanswered and our work tries to answer to this question.
 First of all, we try to find some interaction models between a user and
 an environment, i.e.
 an appliance.
 Some of prior arts that are related to 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Sensing of Human Activity
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 such as sensory grammer and activity zone focus on the fact that what is
 the most typical or common mobility profile when people do a specific behavior.
 And they can achieve more than 90% of accuracy of detection rate under
 realistic settings.
 However, this approach doesn't actually care of how people change an environmen
t when people do a specific job except their movement profile.
 For example, in the activity zone paper they simply assume that if a person
 is moving toward and backward in front of a white board, she is writing/using
 the white board.
 However, it is always possible that there is a case where she is just thinking
 and going toward and backward in front of the white boards.
 Imagine if we can also monitor current status of the white board, say accelerat
ion/vibration.
 Such information, of course, helps distinguish this kind of ambiguity.
 However, adding sensing modality often is not desired as a cost issue come
 to the place.
 So, we also consider tradeoff between adding sensing modality and detection
 rate.
 One interesting observation regarding this issue could be [] where the
 detection rate is a bell shaped curve due to various noise sources.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Recalling our focus of work, we are aiming at monitoring people and sources
 of resources at the same time.
 Therefore, our approach is, in that regard, new because the correlation
 among users and resources is the most important and essential point of
 view.
 Say, how people interact with appliances, how people change the status
 of appliances, how different depending upon individual's characteristics
 and how appliances can differentiate people.
 Therefore, the interesting features could be both of people and appliances.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We envision that our work can be an initial step to a new sensing regime
 that scales down to the individual level of granularity.
 Except some information that is solely personal such as health monitoring,
 there are very few attempts to provide individual level of granularity
 of sensory information.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Interaction models played an important role especially in the Human Computer
 Interface regime.
 Some of researchers developed several techniques that accomodate users
 with a new and intuitive way to interact with machines.
 For example, a well known mice, touch pad, and other input devices gave
 users a great experience from the beginning and they are all around nowadays.
 As computing resources play an important role in our daily life, people
 started to look at various aspects of technology.
 Especially they started to want machines to help their decision making
 processes by providing suggestions, numbers in regards to performance,
 health, and money, and personal stories.
 Such demands initiated tremendous amounts of research areas such as artificial
 intelligence, personal health monitoring, and others.
 In similar regards, we are aiming at develeoping a system that provides
 personal stories in terms of resource/electricity consumption of individual
 level of granularity and therefore helping people improve their daily resource
 consumption pattern.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
