#LyX 1.5.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 276
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
SpotLight : Story
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Patrick's 2 days.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Day 1.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
He woke up in the morning around 8AM.
 He was about too late.
 So he decided to quickly wash his face and shave.
 He used A tiny amount of midium hot water and electrical shaving machine
 and tooth brush.
 He decided to take his car so he can reach his office on time.
 It is about 20 minutes distance from his home to his office.
 Right after he arrived his office, he turned on his computer and desk lamp
 and checked some e-mails then brifly checked his agenda.
 Before the meeting, he wanted to drink a cup of coffee because he didn't
 have a chance.
 He went to a vending machine and took one.
 While drinking coffee, he double checked his presentation material using
 his laptop.
 Then he went to the meeting room and started his presentation using a beam
 projector.
 The meeting last more than 2 hours, so they decided to get some sandwitches
 for their working lunch with some soda and coffee.
 He took one salmon sandwidch and a bottle of mineral water.
 When he came back to his office, he realized he left his lamp on so he
 turn his lamp off.
 Then he started updating today's meeting.
 While doing it, he felt it got little hot, he decided to turn on then air
 conditioner.
 Around 3PM, one client came to his office to talk about the progress report
 that he sent out a couple of days ago.
 He served a cup of apple juice to his client and started talking about
 it.
 After a while, his client claimed that it is little too cold so he set
 temperature a little higher.
 After meeting his client, he decided to visit one of his colleagues near
 his office to discuss about one problem that he had.
 Walking along the street, he found one good hotdog place so he bought two
 for him and his friend.
 After visiting his friend, he felt so tired so he decided to go home and
 take some rest.
 So he made phone calls to his office and his home so he can let them know.
 Then he took his car and drove back home.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When he came home, his wife was preparing dinner for the family.
 So, he went to the bathroom and took a short shower then went to the living
 room and joined his daughter watching a television.
 The TV show was boring so he started to chat with his daughter about her
 day.
 Shortly after, his wife called him and his daughter since dinner was ready.
 After dinner, he decided to take care of his garden especially wanted to
 water the garden.
 Suddenly, he realized that he forgot to invite one of his friends to his
 party on saturday.
 So he went back to his room and made a phone call.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After a long day, he felt so tired he just went to sleep.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Day 2.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
He woke up around 6AM.
 He went to the kitchen and made coffee using 12-cup brown coffee maker
 for his family.
 While brewing coffee, he started to make some omlet and toasts.
 Then he went to the upstair and woke up his wife and daughter.
 Then he was happty with that they had breakfast together.
 He felt good, so he decided to take a bus to his office because it only
 cost $0.25 per a ride.
 At the office, he turned on his laptop because he didn't want to be bothered
 with the noise of his desktop.
 Then checked e-mails and agenda.
 Since he got some request for items from his boss, he started to search
 for necessary and appropriate items that he needed to order.
 So he made some phone calls and used the Internet.
 After making a list, he sent it to his boss and the department and also
 printed out for recording purpose.
 As things went well, he was in the mood of researching on his current project.
 So he went to the library of his company and spent some time there.
 During lunch time, he went out to one of restaurants with some of his colleague
s to have pasta.
 He had pomodoro pasta with a cup of sparkling water.
 Then he came back to work and most of time he stayed in his office doing
 some paper works.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Around 6PM, he called his wife and daughter to ask to go out for dinner.
 So, his wife drove her car and picked up him at his office.
 And three of them went to a barbeque place.
 He had one full size barbeque back-rip with two bottles of beer.
 When they came home, they felt they are so smelly.
 So everyone took a long shower just to get rid of smell.
 It was around 10PM after they took shower.
 So, his daughter went to bed.
 Because of the beer, he wanted to talk to his wife about his day.
 So, they went to the living room and talked about that.
 Around 12PM, they both together went to bed.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
What if stories
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What if there is a system that profiles his resource consumption pattern
 and provides information regarding his resource efficiency on a daily basis.
 What if the system can also give a benign suggestion if there is unintentional
 resource waste.
 Everytime he checks his agenda, what if the system sends an e-mail that
 informs his resource budget, consumed and remainder.
 What if he carefully considers the information for improving his resource
 efficiency.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For example, the system displays his current resource consumption as well
 as total resource consumption on his PDA screen.
 If he wants, the system can provide finer grained information such as what
 kind of resources he consumed for what.
 In addition, it also gives places where he wasted resource unintentionally
 so he can be more aware of his wasteful resource consumption pattern.
 If he forgot to turn off a television, a desk lamp, or a desktop, or close
 a faucet, it may help him reduce such waste of resource if the system can
 notify him as soon as it detects such events.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
SpotLight, a system that aims at providing such information for individuals
 to be more resource efficient, can eventually help the earth be sustainable.
  
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
