#LyX 1.5.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 276
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Abstract
In a building we can divide energy consumption in two domains; infrastructure
 domain and personal domain.
 As more control over HVAC and lighting systems, which mainly consist of
 infrastructure domain, became available, more efficient energy management
 of buildings became possible.
 As a result, an individual's energy consumption is a significant amount
 of the total consumption of a building.
 Often times an individual's awareness of various environmental factors
 such as carbon dioxide emission and consumption plays an important role
 in energy conservation.
 Some works in the social sciences field emphasizes on that fine grained
 information regarding energy consumption may help people improve their
 energy usage pattern significantly.
 Some social scientists claim that continual awareness of energy conservation
 is also important.
 In light of such works, we present SpotLight, a system that profiles individual
's energy consumption pattern in real time.
 Our prototype implementation views appliances as rendering a service to
 a user and the energy consumption associated with the appliance as a cost
 for the service.
 Each participating appliance is specified a service range, a physical vicinity
 from the appliance within which the user benefits from the service.
 Using radio receive strength from user-wearable mote tags, an appliance
 is able to determine the users in its service range.
 In order to make these measurements, each appliance is instrumented with
 a power meter and a mote tag reader.
 The current implementation of Spotlight uses a COTS power meter and MicaZ
 motes.
 The Spotlight system is deployed and tested in an experimental setup with
 various appliances and users.
 We evaluate multiple schemes of accounting energy consumption based on
 an individual's movement profile and the appliances' power profile.
 Our preliminary results show how the system could detect wasted energy
 and we discuss interesting individual behavior that could be interpreted
 for various energy optimizations.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
